hi I'm Willy and I'm John and we are the
house of grow cookies and today we are
making a Mediterranean dip baba ghanouj
yes it's kind of like comments but it's
made with eggplant should we get started
so a couple months ago we planted the
eggplants and now it's time to harvest
I'm very excited because it's been a
cold summer here in Portland but we've
still got a lot of eggplants so when
you're harvesting eggplants you never
want to tug them off the plant because
they are really attached and you can
hurt the plant so you want to use
scissors and you should be careful too
because they can have spines up on the
little cap that attaches them to the
plants so be careful because they are
pretty pokey so I'm just going to go
ahead and snip off a couple eggplants
here because we're going to be resting
them up a little bit later and I'm just
going to cut them off close to where
they meet up with the main stem there's
a couple ways you can tell that an
eggplant is just perfect that's the best
time to harvest and that is a lot of
times they're tip will start to lighten
up in color and if you press your thumb
into the eggplants flesh it should be
able to go in and make an indentation
but that should also bounced right back
if the indentation stays that's an
indication that the fruit is over ripe
and it's really hard and we probably
want to leave it on the plant for a few
more days and check on it again later so
I'm going to harvest a few eggplants and
then we're going to go inside and make
some baba ghanoush baba ghanoush is a
roasted eggplant dip and so I'm going to
take these eggplants and we're going to
roast them in the oven at 450 if you
don't make a slit in them though they
can explode so I'm going to score the
bottom of the eggplants you don't have
to do it super deep about a quarter inch
and then place the score side down on
the tray and sometimes it's kind of a
good idea to see how the eggplant wants
to lay on the tray and then pick it up
and score it on the underside then I'm
just going to stick them into an oven
I've preheated it to 450 and we're just
going to roast them until they get kind
of wrinkly and really soft so it's going
to take probably about 25 to 30 minutes
it can take a little longer a little
less time depending on the eggplant
sighs baba ghanoush is super easy to
make basically you just dump all the
ingredients into a Cuisinart or blender
and puree them so we're going to peel
off the skins of
the eggplant and scoop out the eggplant
flesh though because the eggplant skin
is kind of tough and it can be bitter
you can chop it up a little bit okay so
into the blender we're putting two cups
of the chopped cooked eggplant to give
it a nice nutty flavor we're putting in
3 tablespoons of tahini 3 tablespoons of
fresh lemon juice 2 teaspoons of white
wine vinegar 2 tablespoons of olive oil
quarter teaspoon cumin and a half
teaspoon of smoked paprika 1 large clove
of garlic that's been chopped a teaspoon
of lemon zest and 2 tablespoons of
Italian parsley so everything's in the
Cuisinart and I am just going to process
it till it's nice and smooth open the
Cuisinart back up scrape down the sides
and then give the baba ghanoush a taste
and then add salt and pepper to taste so
it's pretty easy I'm a service with some
pita and feta and olives been kind of a
flatterer for a really simple easy lunch
right so I'm going to serve you up
all right okay
mm-hmm mm-hmm I'm just gonna go for
dipping that's a proof
mm-hmm well that was delicious baba
ghanouj well thank you I thought so too
and it's great because it's such a
simple recipe thanks for tuning in we
love shooting these recipes with you and
we appreciate your comments and if you
want more ideas for your vegetable
garden you can check out my blog dig in
food where there's recipes and DIY
projects and all sorts of fun
information see you next time
you